---
title: Observability Concepts
description: Learn the terms, technology, and concepts implemented in Provider's Observability suite.
ms.assetid: bf5b0412-00a5-4ef4-871e-4aafc3bb5fee
ms.topic: concept
ms.date: 06/11/2021
ms.custom: ""
ms.services: "observability"
ms.author: "mnegron"
---

# Overview

Terraform is a tool for building, changing, and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently. Configuration files describe to Terraform the components needed to run a single application or the entire Azure Infrastructure.

O360 leverages Terraform Profiles to manage Azure Services. The [Dojo terraform](../cicd/terraform-concept.md) modules enable management of low-level components such as compute instances, storage, and networking, as well as high-level components such as DNS entries, SaaS features, AKS Clusters, Virtual Machines, Azure Databases, etc.

## Splunk Observability (formerly SignalFx)

SignalFX is the tool used to ingest, store, analyze, visualize, and alert on **metrics** generated by the Azure Infrastructure.

A **metric** is anything that is measurable (you can assign a numerical value to it) and variable (changes over time). The following are examples of **metrics**: Response time in milliseconds of an API call.

Metrics are stored in dimensions. A dimension is a key/value pair that, along with the metric name, is part of the identity of a **time series**. One can **filter** and aggregate time series by those dimensions across SignalFx. A **filter** is any dimension, property, or [tag](cloud-resource-tagging.md) that you use to narrow down the number of objects you are observing.

## Splunk Observability Detectors

An [observability detector](add-detector-to-product.md) evaluates metrics over a period of time against a specified condition, and optionally for a given duration. When a condition has been met, detectors generate events of a specified severity. Conceptually, you can think of a detector as a chart that can trigger alerts when a signal's value crosses specified thresholds defined in alert rules

One can also create detectors that monitor µAPM PG metrics and alert when they detect anomalies. To understand more about µAPM PG detectors, see the section [Microservices APM PG detectors](https://dev.splunk.com/observability/docs/detectors/detectors_events_alerts#Microservices-APM-PG-detectors).

An [observability detector](add-detector-to-product.md) can also be created programmatically using the [SignalFx API](https://developers.signalfx.com/detectors_reference.html#tag/Create-Single-Detector).
